.TH SPORE 6X
.SH NAME
spore \- calculate and display a radiating aggregate of particles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.in +8n
.ti -8n
\fIspore\fR
[-duFR] [-w width] [-h height] [-o filename] [-m index] [-c colorwheel] [-n count][-N nballs][-k duration]
.in -8n
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIspore\fR
generates and graphically displays a radiating aggregate of particles. It was
originally intended as a simulation of the aggregation of dust particles in
the atmosphere or marine snow but looks more like a spore print.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
-R
Indicates the display will be in the root window. In this mode, the  default
color map will be used and no spinning of the color wheel is possible.
.TP
-c \fIn\fP
Selects one of many different color wheels to use. The default color
wheel is a rainbow palette.
.TP
-d
Indicates demo mode. In this mode, the aggregate will be calculated, displayed,
spun, then the program will exit.
.TP
-w \fIn\fP
Specifies the width of the window. Default is 512.
.TP
-h \fIn\fP
Specifies the height of the window. Default is 512.
.TP
-k \fIduration\fP
Specifies how many points to compute before changing colors.
.TP
-m \fIn\fP
Specifies the minimum color index to be used for the  upper end of the color
wheel
.TP
-n \fInumpics\fP
Specifies how many aggregates to compute before exiting. During display
(see NOTES below), pressing 'n' or 'N' will skip to the next map.
.TP
-N \fInballs\fP
Specifies how many aggregates to simultaneously compute and display
.TP
-o \fIfilename\fP
Specifies the output filename to be used. If the -o option is given, this
file will automatically be written out at the completion of the drawing.
If it is not specified, a default filename of spore.ppm is used and only
written if the 'f' or 'F' keys are pressed during a run. The format of the
output file is PPM. The parameters used to calculate the picture are included 
as comments at the beginning of the output file.
.TP
-s
Indicates to spin the color wheel immediately upon completion of display.
.TP
-u
Produces a usage message.
.TP
.sp 2
.SH NOTES
.sp
During display, use of the keys 
\fI+-><0123456789CfFnNrswWX?hqQ\fP
indicates:
.sp
.ti 10
(+) Increment minimum color index.
.ti 10
(+) Decrement minimum color index.
.ti 10
(C) Create another aggregate, preserving the existing ones.
.ti 10
(n or N) Skip to the next aggregate.
.ti 10
(s) Spin the color wheel in the positive direction.
.ti 10
(r) Spin the color wheel in the negative direction.
.ti 10
(W or w) Increment or decrement the color map index.
.ti 10
(X) Erase the existing aggregates and restart the computation and display
.ti 10
(Q or q) quit
.sp 2
.SH BUGS
.sp
Switching multi-screens (on an SCO 3.2v4 system) while displaying an aggregate
on the root window (in a "virtual" root window) seems to make it impossible to
switch screens and kills the server.
.sp
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
        Ronald Joe Record
        rr@ronrecord.com
.fi
.sp 2
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.PP
The algorithm, which uses a modified random walk, was derived 
from lectures given by Dietmar Saupe at the University of California at Santa 
Cruz. Assistance with colormaps and spinning color wheels and X was gleaned 
from Hiram Clawson and Stacey Campbell.
